<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
  	<link href="epub.css" media="all" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  	<script type="text/javascript" src="svg.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body id="conceptual_flow_with_tasks">
    <div class="content-wrapper">
      <div id="chapter_container" class='conceptualwithtasks'>
  <article class="chapter">
    <a id="TP40014097-CH8">&#x200c;</a><a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_133">&#x200c;</a>
    <h2 class="chapter-name">Collection Types</h2>
      
      	<section class="section">
      		<p class="para">Swift provides two <em>collection types</em>, known as arrays and dictionaries, for storing collections of values. Arrays store ordered lists of values of the same type. Dictionaries store unordered collections of values of the same type, which can be referenced and looked up through a unique identifier (also known as a key).</p><p class="para">Arrays and dictionaries in Swift are always clear about the types of values and keys that they can store. This means that you cannot insert a value of the wrong type into an array or dictionary by mistake. It also means you can be confident about the types of values you will retrieve from an array or dictionary. Swift’s use of explicitly typed collections ensures that your code is always clear about the types of values it can work with and enables you to catch any type mismatches early in your code’s development.</p><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">Swift’s <code class="code-voice">Array</code> type exhibits different behavior to other types when assigned to a constant or variable, or when passed to a function or method. For more information, see <a href="CollectionTypes.xhtml#TP40014097-CH8-XID_151" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH8-XID_151" rel="me">Mutability of Collections</a> and <a href="ClassesAndStructures.xhtml#TP40014097-CH13-XID_109" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH13-XID_109" rel="me">Assignment and Copy Behavior for Collection Types</a>.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div>

    		</section> 


      <section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_135">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Arrays</h3>
  <p class="para">An <em>array</em> stores multiple values of the same type in an ordered list. The same value can appear in an array multiple times at different positions.</p><p class="para">Swift arrays are specific about the kinds of values they can store. They differ from Objective-C’s <code class="code-voice">NSArray</code> and <code class="code-voice">NSMutableArray</code> classes, which can store any kind of object and do not provide any information about the nature of the objects they return. In Swift, the type of values that a particular array can store is always made clear, either through an explicit type annotation, or through type inference, and does not have to be a class type. If you create an array of <code class="code-voice">Int</code> values, for example, you can’t insert any value other than <code class="code-voice">Int</code> values into that array. Swift arrays are type safe, and are always clear about what they may contain.</p>
  <section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_136">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Array Type Shorthand Syntax</h3>
  <p class="para">The type of a Swift array is written in full as <code class="code-voice">Array&lt;SomeType&gt;</code>, where <code class="code-voice">SomeType</code> is the type that the array is allowed to store. You can also write the type of an array in shorthand form as <code class="code-voice">SomeType[]</code>. Although the two forms are functionally identical, the shorthand form is preferred, and is used throughout this guide when referring to the type of an array.</p>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_137">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Array Literals</h3>
  <p class="para">You can initialize an array with an <em>array literal</em>, which is a shorthand way to write one or more values as an array collection. An array literal is written as a list of values, separated by commas, surrounded by a pair of square brackets:</p><span class="caption"></span>
<div class="code-outline">
  <ul class="code-outline-lines code-voice">
    <li><pre class="code-voice">[<em class="variable-text">value 1</em>, <em class="variable-text">value 2</em>, <em class="variable-text">value 3</em>]</pre></li>
  </ul>
</div><p class="para">The example below creates an array called <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> to store <code class="code-voice">String</code> values:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">shoppingList</code>: <code class="n"><!-- a href="" logicalPath="" -->String<!-- /a --></code>[] = [<code class="s">&quot;Eggs&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;Milk&quot;</code>]</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList has been initialized with two initial items</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">The <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> variable is declared as “an array of <code class="code-voice">String</code> values”, written as <code class="code-voice">String[]</code>. Because this particular array has specified a value type of <code class="code-voice">String</code>, it is <em>only</em> allowed to store <code class="code-voice">String</code> values. Here, the <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> array is initialized with two <code class="code-voice">String</code> values (<code class="code-voice">&quot;Eggs&quot;</code> and <code class="code-voice">&quot;Milk&quot;</code>), written within an array literal.</p><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">The <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> array is declared as a variable (with the <code class="code-voice">var</code> introducer) and not a constant (with the <code class="code-voice">let</code> introducer) because more items are added to the shopping list in the examples below.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div><p class="para">In this case, the array literal contains two <code class="code-voice">String</code> values and nothing else. This matches the type of the <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> variable’s declaration (an array that can only contain <code class="code-voice">String</code> values), and so the assignment of the array literal is permitted as a way to initialize <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> with two initial items.</p><p class="para">Thanks to Swift’s type inference, you don’t have to write the type of the array if you’re initializing it with an array literal containing values of the same type. The initialization of <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> could have been written in a shorter form instead:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">shoppingList</code> = [<code class="s">&quot;Eggs&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;Milk&quot;</code>]</code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Because all values in the array literal are of the same type, Swift can infer that <code class="code-voice">String[]</code> is the correct type to use for the <code class="code-voice">shoppingList</code> variable.</p>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_139">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Accessing and Modifying an Array</h3>
  <p class="para">You access and modify an array through its methods and properties, or by using subscript syntax.</p><p class="para">To find out the number of items in an array, check its read-only <code class="code-voice">count</code> property:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The shopping list contains </code>\(<code class="vc">shoppingList</code>.<code class="vc">count</code>)<code class="s"> items.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;The shopping list contains 2 items.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Use the Boolean <code class="code-voice">isEmpty</code> property as a shortcut for checking whether the <code class="code-voice">count</code> property is equal to <code class="code-voice">0</code>:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">if</code> <code class="vc">shoppingList</code>.<code class="vc">isEmpty</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The shopping list is empty.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">} <code class="kt">else</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The shopping list is not empty.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;The shopping list is not empty.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can add a new item to the end of an array by calling the array’s <code class="code-voice">append</code> method:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">shoppingList</code>.<code class="vc">append</code>(<code class="s">&quot;Flour&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 3 items, and someone is making pancakes</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Alternatively, add a new item to the end of an array with the addition assignment operator (<code class="code-voice">+=</code>):</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">shoppingList</code> += <code class="s">&quot;Baking Powder&quot;</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 4 items</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can also append an array of compatible items with the addition assignment operator (<code class="code-voice">+=</code>):</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">shoppingList</code> += [<code class="s">&quot;Chocolate Spread&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;Cheese&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;Butter&quot;</code>]</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 7 items</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Retrieve a value from the array by using <em>subscript syntax</em>, passing the index of the value you want to retrieve within square brackets immediately after the name of the array:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">firstItem</code> = <code class="vc">shoppingList</code>[<code class="m">0</code>]</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// firstItem is equal to &quot;Eggs&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Note that the first item in the array has an index of <code class="code-voice">0</code>, not <code class="code-voice">1</code>. Arrays in Swift are always zero-indexed.</p><p class="para">You can use subscript syntax to change an existing value at a given index:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">shoppingList</code>[<code class="m">0</code>] = <code class="s">&quot;Six eggs&quot;</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the first item in the list is now equal to &quot;Six eggs&quot; rather than &quot;Eggs&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can also use subscript syntax to change a range of values at once, even if the replacement set of values has a different length than the range you are replacing. The following example replaces <code class="code-voice">&quot;Chocolate Spread&quot;</code>, <code class="code-voice">&quot;Cheese&quot;</code>, and <code class="code-voice">&quot;Butter&quot;</code> with <code class="code-voice">&quot;Bananas&quot;</code> and <code class="code-voice">&quot;Apples&quot;</code>:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">shoppingList</code>[<code class="m">4</code>...<code class="m">6</code>] = [<code class="s">&quot;Bananas&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;Apples&quot;</code>]</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 6 items</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">You can’t use subscript syntax to append a new item to the end of an array. If you try to use subscript syntax to retrieve or set a value for an index that is outside of an array’s existing bounds, you will trigger a runtime error. However, you can check that an index is valid before using it, by comparing it to the array’s <code class="code-voice">count</code> property. Except when <code class="code-voice">count</code> is <code class="code-voice">0</code> (meaning the array is empty), the largest valid index in an array will always be <code class="code-voice">count - 1</code>, because arrays are indexed from zero.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div><p class="para">To insert an item into the array at a specified index, call the array’s <code class="code-voice">insert(atIndex:)</code> method:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">shoppingList</code>.<code class="vc">insert</code>(<code class="s">&quot;Maple Syrup&quot;</code>, <code class="vc">atIndex</code>: <code class="m">0</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 7 items</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// &quot;Maple Syrup&quot; is now the first item in the list</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">This call to the <code class="code-voice">insert</code> method inserts a new item with a value of <code class="code-voice">&quot;Maple Syrup&quot;</code> at the very beginning of the shopping list, indicated by an index of <code class="code-voice">0</code>.</p><p class="para">Similarly, you remove an item from the array with the <code class="code-voice">removeAtIndex</code> method. This method removes the item at the specified index and returns the removed item (although you can ignore the returned value if you do not need it):</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">mapleSyrup</code> = <code class="vc">shoppingList</code>.<code class="vc">removeAtIndex</code>(<code class="m">0</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the item that was at index 0 has just been removed</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 6 items, and no Maple Syrup</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the mapleSyrup constant is now equal to the removed &quot;Maple Syrup&quot; string</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Any gaps in an array are closed when an item is removed, and so the value at index <code class="code-voice">0</code> is once again equal to <code class="code-voice">&quot;Six eggs&quot;</code>:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">firstItem</code> = <code class="vc">shoppingList</code>[<code class="m">0</code>]</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// firstItem is now equal to &quot;Six eggs&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">If you want to remove the final item from an array, use the <code class="code-voice">removeLast</code> method rather than the <code class="code-voice">removeAtIndex</code> method to avoid the need to query the array’s <code class="code-voice">count</code> property. Like the <code class="code-voice">removeAtIndex</code> method, <code class="code-voice">removeLast</code> returns the removed item:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">apples</code> = <code class="vc">shoppingList</code>.<code class="vc">removeLast</code>()</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the last item in the array has just been removed</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// shoppingList now contains 5 items, and no cheese</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the apples constant is now equal to the removed &quot;Apples&quot; string</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_141">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Iterating Over an Array</h3>
  <p class="para">You can iterate over the entire set of values in an array with the <code class="code-voice">for</code>-<code class="code-voice">in</code> loop:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">for</code> <code class="vc">item</code> <code class="kt">in</code> <code class="vc">shoppingList</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="vc">item</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Six eggs</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Milk</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Flour</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Baking Powder</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Bananas</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">If you need the integer index of each item as well as its value, use the global <code class="code-voice">enumerate</code> function to iterate over the array instead. The <code class="code-voice">enumerate</code> function returns a tuple for each item in the array composed of the index and the value for that item. You can decompose the tuple into temporary constants or variables as part of the iteration:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">for</code> (<code class="vc">index</code>, <code class="vc">value</code>) <code class="kt">in</code> <code class="vc">enumerate</code>(<code class="vc">shoppingList</code>) {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;Item </code>\(<code class="vc">index</code> + <code class="m">1</code>)<code class="s">: </code>\(<code class="vc">value</code>)<code class="s">&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Item 1: Six eggs</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Item 2: Milk</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Item 3: Flour</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Item 4: Baking Powder</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Item 5: Bananas</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">For more about the <code class="code-voice">for</code>-<code class="code-voice">in</code> loop, see <a href="ControlFlow.xhtml#TP40014097-CH9-XID_154" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH9-XID_154" rel="me">For Loops</a>.</p>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_142">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Creating and Initializing an Array</h3>
  <p class="para">You can create an empty array of a certain type (without setting any initial values) using initializer syntax:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">someInts</code> = <code class="vc">Int</code>[]()</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;someInts is of type Int[] with </code>\(<code class="vc">someInts</code>.<code class="vc">count</code>)<code class="s"> items.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;someInts is of type Int[] with 0 items.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Note that the type of the <code class="code-voice">someInts</code> variable is inferred to be <code class="code-voice">Int[]</code>, because it is set to the output of an <code class="code-voice">Int[]</code> initializer.</p><p class="para">Alternatively, if the context already provides type information, such as a function argument or an already-typed variable or constant, you can create an empty array with an empty array literal, which is written as <code class="code-voice">[]</code> (an empty pair of square brackets):</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">someInts</code>.<code class="vc">append</code>(<code class="m">3</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// someInts now contains 1 value of type Int</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">someInts</code> = []</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// someInts is now an empty array, but is still of type Int[]</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Swift’s <code class="code-voice">Array</code> type also provides an initializer for creating an array of a certain size with all of its values set to a provided default value. You pass this initializer the number of items to be added to the new array (called <code class="code-voice">count</code>) and a default value of the appropriate type (called <code class="code-voice">repeatedValue</code>):</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">threeDoubles</code> = <code class="vc">Double</code>[](<code class="vc">count</code>: <code class="m">3</code>, <code class="vc">repeatedValue</code>: <code class="m">0.0</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// threeDoubles is of type Double[], and equals [0.0, 0.0, 0.0]</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Thanks to type inference, you don’t need to specify the type to be stored in the array when using this initializer, because it can be inferred from the default value:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">anotherThreeDoubles</code> = <code class="vc">Array</code>(<code class="vc">count</code>: <code class="m">3</code>, <code class="vc">repeatedValue</code>: <code class="m">2.5</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// anotherThreeDoubles is inferred as Double[], and equals [2.5, 2.5, 2.5]</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Finally, you can create a new array by adding together two existing arrays of compatible type with the addition operator (<code class="code-voice">+</code>). The new array’s type is inferred from the type of the two arrays you add together:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">sixDoubles</code> = <code class="vc">threeDoubles</code> + <code class="vc">anotherThreeDoubles</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// sixDoubles is inferred as Double[], and equals [0.0, 0.0, 0.0, 2.5, 2.5, 2.5]</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section>
  
</section>

</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_143">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Dictionaries</h3>
  <p class="para">A <em>dictionary</em> is a container that stores multiple values of the same type. Each value is associated with a unique <em>key</em>, which acts as an identifier for that value within the dictionary. Unlike items in an array, items in a dictionary do not have a specified order. You use a dictionary when you need to look up values based on their identifier, in much the same way that a real-world dictionary is used to look up the definition for a particular word.</p><p class="para">Swift dictionaries are specific about the types of keys and values they can store. They differ from Objective-C’s <code class="code-voice">NSDictionary</code> and <code class="code-voice">NSMutableDictionary</code> classes, which can use any kind of object as their keys and values and do not provide any information about the nature of these objects. In Swift, the type of keys and values that a particular dictionary can store is always made clear, either through an explicit type annotation or through type inference.</p><p class="para">Swift’s dictionary type is written as <code class="code-voice">Dictionary&lt;KeyType, ValueType&gt;</code>, where <code class="code-voice">KeyType</code> is the type of value that can be used as a dictionary key, and <code class="code-voice">ValueType</code> is the type of value that the dictionary stores for those keys.</p><p class="para">The only restriction is that <code class="code-voice">KeyType</code> must be <em>hashable</em>—that is, it must provide a way to make itself uniquely representable. All of Swift’s basic types (such as <code class="code-voice">String</code>, <code class="code-voice">Int</code>, <code class="code-voice">Double</code>, and <code class="code-voice">Bool</code>) are hashable by default, and all of these types can be used as the keys of a dictionary. Enumeration member values without associated values (as described in <a href="Enumerations.xhtml" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH12-XID_185" rel="me">Enumerations</a>) are also hashable by default.</p>
  <section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_144">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Dictionary Literals</h3>
  <p class="para">You can initialize a dictionary with with a <em>dictionary literal</em>, which has a similar syntax to the array literal seen earlier. A dictionary literal is a shorthand way to write one or more key-value pairs as a <code class="code-voice">Dictionary</code> collection.</p><p class="para">A <em>key-value pair</em> is a combination of a key and a value. In a dictionary literal, the key and value in each key-value pair are separated by a colon. The key-value pairs are written as a list, separated by commas, surrounded by a pair of square brackets:</p><span class="caption"></span>
<div class="code-outline">
  <ul class="code-outline-lines code-voice">
    <li><pre class="code-voice">[<em class="variable-text">key 1</em>: <em class="variable-text">value 1</em>, <em class="variable-text">key 2</em>: <em class="variable-text">value 2</em>, <em class="variable-text">key 3</em>: <em class="variable-text">value 3</em>]</pre></li>
  </ul>
</div><p class="para">The example below creates a dictionary to store the names of international airports. In this dictionary, the keys are three-letter International Air Transport Association codes, and the values are airport names:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">airports</code>: <code class="n"><!-- a href="" logicalPath="" -->Dictionary<!-- /a --></code>&lt;<code class="n"><!-- a href="" logicalPath="" -->String<!-- /a --></code>, <code class="n"><!-- a href="" logicalPath="" -->String<!-- /a --></code>&gt; = [<code class="s">&quot;TYO&quot;</code>: <code class="s">&quot;Tokyo&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;DUB&quot;</code>: <code class="s">&quot;Dublin&quot;</code>]</code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">The <code class="code-voice">airports</code> dictionary is declared as having a type of <code class="code-voice">Dictionary&lt;String, String&gt;</code>, which means “a <code class="code-voice">Dictionary</code> whose keys are of type <code class="code-voice">String</code>, and whose values are also of type <code class="code-voice">String</code>”.</p><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">The <code class="code-voice">airports</code> dictionary is declared as a variable (with the <code class="code-voice">var</code> introducer), and not a constant (with the <code class="code-voice">let</code> introducer), because more airports will be added to the dictionary in the examples below.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div><p class="para">The <code class="code-voice">airports</code> dictionary is initialized with a dictionary literal containing two key-value pairs. The first pair has a key of <code class="code-voice">&quot;TYO&quot;</code> and a value of <code class="code-voice">&quot;Tokyo&quot;</code>. The second pair has a key of <code class="code-voice">&quot;DUB&quot;</code> and a value of <code class="code-voice">&quot;Dublin&quot;</code>.</p><p class="para">This dictionary literal contains two <code class="code-voice">String: String</code> pairs. This matches the type of the <code class="code-voice">airports</code> variable declaration (a dictionary with only <code class="code-voice">String</code> keys, and only <code class="code-voice">String</code> values) and so the assignment of the dictionary literal is permitted as a way to initialize the <code class="code-voice">airports</code> dictionary with two initial items.</p><p class="para">As with arrays, you don’t have to write the type of the dictionary if you’re initializing it with a dictionary literal whose keys and values have consistent types. The initialization of <code class="code-voice">airports</code> could have been be written in a shorter form instead:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">airports</code> = [<code class="s">&quot;TYO&quot;</code>: <code class="s">&quot;Tokyo&quot;</code>, <code class="s">&quot;DUB&quot;</code>: <code class="s">&quot;Dublin&quot;</code>]</code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Because all keys in the literal are of the same type as each other, and likewise all values are of the same type as each other, Swift can infer that <code class="code-voice">Dictionary&lt;String, String&gt;</code> is the correct type to use for the <code class="code-voice">airports</code> dictionary.</p>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_146">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Accessing and Modifying a Dictionary</h3>
  <p class="para">You access and modify a dictionary through its methods and properties, or by using subscript syntax. As with an array, you can find out the number of items in a <code class="code-voice">Dictionary</code> by checking its read-only <code class="code-voice">count</code> property:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The dictionary of airports contains </code>\(<code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">count</code>)<code class="s"> items.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;The dictionary of airports contains 2 items.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can add a new item to a dictionary with subscript syntax. Use a new key of the appropriate type as the subscript index, and assign a new value of the appropriate type:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">airports</code>[<code class="s">&quot;LHR&quot;</code>] = <code class="s">&quot;London&quot;</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the airports dictionary now contains 3 items</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can also use subscript syntax to change the value associated with a particular key:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">airports</code>[<code class="s">&quot;LHR&quot;</code>] = <code class="s">&quot;London Heathrow&quot;</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// the value for &quot;LHR&quot; has been changed to &quot;London Heathrow&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">As an alternative to subscripting, use a dictionary’s <code class="code-voice">updateValue(forKey:)</code> method to set or update the value for a particular key. Like the subscript examples above, the <code class="code-voice">updateValue(forKey:)</code> method sets a value for a key if none exists, or updates the value if that key already exists. Unlike a subscript, however, the <code class="code-voice">updateValue(forKey:)</code> method returns the <em>old</em> value after performing an update. This enables you to check whether or not an update took place.</p><p class="para">The <code class="code-voice">updateValue(forKey:)</code> method returns an optional value of the dictionary’s value type. For a dictionary that stores <code class="code-voice">String</code> values, for example, the method returns a value of type <code class="code-voice">String?</code>, or “optional <code class="code-voice">String</code>”. This optional value contains the old value for that key if one existed before the update, or <code class="code-voice">nil</code> if no value existed:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">if</code> <code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">oldValue</code> = <code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">updateValue</code>(<code class="s">&quot;Dublin International&quot;</code>, <code class="vc">forKey</code>: <code class="s">&quot;DUB&quot;</code>) {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The old value for DUB was </code>\(<code class="vc">oldValue</code>)<code class="s">.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;The old value for DUB was Dublin.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can also use subscript syntax to retrieve a value from the dictionary for a particular key. Because it is possible to request a key for which no value exists, a dictionary’s subscript returns an optional value of the dictionary’s value type. If the dictionary contains a value for the requested key, the subscript returns an optional value containing the existing value for that key. Otherwise, the subscript returns <code class="code-voice">nil</code>:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">if</code> <code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">airportName</code> = <code class="vc">airports</code>[<code class="s">&quot;DUB&quot;</code>] {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The name of the airport is </code>\(<code class="vc">airportName</code>)<code class="s">.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">} <code class="kt">else</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;That airport is not in the airports dictionary.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;The name of the airport is Dublin International.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">You can use subscript syntax to remove a key-value pair from a dictionary by assigning a value of <code class="code-voice">nil</code> for that key:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">airports</code>[<code class="s">&quot;APL&quot;</code>] = <code class="s">&quot;Apple International&quot;</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// &quot;Apple International&quot; is not the real airport for APL, so delete it</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">airports</code>[<code class="s">&quot;APL&quot;</code>] = <code class="vc">nil</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// APL has now been removed from the dictionary</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">Alternatively, remove a key-value pair from a dictionary with the <code class="code-voice">removeValueForKey</code> method. This method removes the key-value pair if it exists and returns the removed value, or returns <code class="code-voice">nil</code> if no value existed:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">if</code> <code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">removedValue</code> = <code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">removeValueForKey</code>(<code class="s">&quot;DUB&quot;</code>) {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The removed airport's name is </code>\(<code class="vc">removedValue</code>)<code class="s">.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">} <code class="kt">else</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;The airports dictionary does not contain a value for DUB.&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// prints &quot;The removed airport's name is Dublin International.&quot;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_147">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Iterating Over a Dictionary</h3>
  <p class="para">You can iterate over the key-value pairs in a dictionary with a <code class="code-voice">for</code>-<code class="code-voice">in</code> loop. Each item in the dictionary is returned as a <code class="code-voice">(key, value)</code> tuple, and you can decompose the tuple’s members into temporary constants or variables as part of the iteration:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">for</code> (<code class="vc">airportCode</code>, <code class="vc">airportName</code>) <code class="kt">in</code> <code class="vc">airports</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;</code>\(<code class="vc">airportCode</code>)<code class="s">: </code>\(<code class="vc">airportName</code>)<code class="s">&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// TYO: Tokyo</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// LHR: London Heathrow</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">For more about the <code class="code-voice">for</code>-<code class="code-voice">in</code> loop, see <a href="ControlFlow.xhtml#TP40014097-CH9-XID_154" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH9-XID_154" rel="me">For Loops</a>.</p><p class="para">You can also retrieve an iteratable collection of a dictionary’s keys or values by accessing its <code class="code-voice">keys</code> and <code class="code-voice">values</code> properties:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">for</code> <code class="vc">airportCode</code> <code class="kt">in</code> <code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">keys</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;Airport code: </code>\(<code class="vc">airportCode</code>)<code class="s">&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Airport code: TYO</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Airport code: LHR</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"> </code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">for</code> <code class="vc">airportName</code> <code class="kt">in</code> <code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">values</code> {</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">    <code class="vc">println</code>(<code class="s">&quot;Airport name: </code>\(<code class="vc">airportName</code>)<code class="s">&quot;</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice">}</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Airport name: Tokyo</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// Airport name: London Heathrow</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">If you need to use a dictionary’s keys or values with an API that takes an <code class="code-voice">Array</code> instance, initialize a new array with the <code class="code-voice">keys</code> or <code class="code-voice">values</code> property:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">airportCodes</code> = <code class="vc">Array</code>(<code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">keys</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// airportCodes is [&quot;TYO&quot;, &quot;LHR&quot;]</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"> </code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">let</code> <code class="vc">airportNames</code> = <code class="vc">Array</code>(<code class="vc">airports</code>.<code class="vc">values</code>)</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// airportNames is [&quot;Tokyo&quot;, &quot;London Heathrow&quot;]</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">Swift’s <code class="code-voice">Dictionary</code> type is an unordered collection. The order in which keys, values, and key-value pairs are retrieved when iterating over a dictionary is not specified.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div>
  
</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_149">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Creating an Empty Dictionary</h3>
  <p class="para">As with arrays, you can create an empty <code class="code-voice">Dictionary</code> of a certain type by using initializer syntax:</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="kt">var</code> <code class="vc">namesOfIntegers</code> = <code class="vc">Dictionary</code>&lt;<code class="n"><!-- a href="" logicalPath="" -->Int<!-- /a --></code>, <code class="n"><!-- a href="" logicalPath="" -->String<!-- /a --></code>&gt;()</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// namesOfIntegers is an empty Dictionary&lt;Int, String&gt;</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><p class="para">This example creates an empty dictionary of type <code class="code-voice">Int</code>, <code class="code-voice">String</code> to store human-readable names of integer values. Its keys are of type <code class="code-voice">Int</code>, and its values are of type <code class="code-voice">String</code>.</p><p class="para">If the context already provides type information, create an empty dictionary with an empty dictionary literal, which is written as <code class="code-voice">[:]</code> (a colon inside a pair of square brackets):</p><section class="code-listing">
  
  <span class="caption"></span>
  <div class="code-sample">

      <ul class="code-lines">
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">namesOfIntegers</code>[<code class="m">16</code>] = <code class="s">&quot;sixteen&quot;</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// namesOfIntegers now contains 1 key-value pair</code></code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="vc">namesOfIntegers</code> = [:]</code></li>
          <li><code class="code-voice"><code class="c">// namesOfIntegers is once again an empty dictionary of type Int, String</code></code></li>
      </ul>



  </div>
</section><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">Behind the scenes, Swift’s array and dictionary types are implemented as <em>generic collections</em>. For more on generic types and collections, see <a href="Generics.xhtml" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH26-XID_234" rel="me">Generics</a>.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div>
  
</section>

</section>
<section class="section">
	<a id="TP40014097-CH8-XID_151">&#x200c;</a>
  <h3 class="section-name">Mutability of Collections</h3>
  <p class="para">Arrays and dictionaries store multiple values together in a single collection. If you create an array or a dictionary and assign it to a variable, the collection that is created will be <em>mutable</em>. This means that you can change (or <em>mutate</em>) the size of the collection after it is created by adding more items to the collection, or by removing existing items from the ones it already contains. Conversely, if you assign an array or a dictionary to a constant, that array or dictionary is <em>immutable</em>, and its size cannot be changed.</p><p class="para">For dictionaries, immutability also means that you cannot replace the value for an existing key in the dictionary. An immutable dictionary’s contents cannot be changed once they are set.</p><p class="para">Immutability has a slightly different meaning for arrays, however. You are still not allowed to perform any action that has the potential to change the size of an immutable array, but you <em>are</em> allowed to set a new value for an existing index in the array. This enables Swift’s <code class="code-voice">Array</code> type to provide optimal performance for array operations when the size of an array is fixed.</p><p class="para">The mutability behavior of Swift’s <code class="code-voice">Array</code> type also affects how array instances are assigned and modified. For more information, see <a href="ClassesAndStructures.xhtml#TP40014097-CH13-XID_109" data-id="//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40014097-CH13-XID_109" rel="me">Assignment and Copy Behavior for Collection Types</a>.</p><div class="note">
  <aside class="aside">
    	<p class="aside-title uppercase">Note</p>
    	<p class="para">It is good practice to create immutable collections in all cases where the collection’s size does not need to change. Doing so enables the Swift compiler to optimize the performance of the collections you create.
    	</p>
    
  </aside>
</div>
  
</section>

  </article>
</div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
