<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
  <head>
  	<link href="epub.css" media="all" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  	<script type="text/javascript" src="svg.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body id="conceptual_flow_with_tasks">
    <div class="content-wrapper">
      <div id="chapter_container">
  <article class="chapter">
    <h2 class="chapter-name">Copyright and Notices</h2>
    	<div class="important clear">
  <aside class="aside">
    <p class="aside-title uppercase">Important
    </p>
    <p class="para">This is a preliminary document for an API or technology in development. Apple is supplying this information to help you plan for the adoption of the technologies and programming interfaces described herein for use on Apple-branded products. This information is subject to change, and software implemented according to this document should be tested with final operating system software and final documentation. Newer versions of this document may be provided with future seeds of the API or technology.
    </p>
    
  </aside>
</div>

    	<section class="section">
        <p class="para"><span>Apple Inc.<br />Copyright © 2014 Apple Inc.<br />All rights reserved.<br /></span></p><p class="para"><span>No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, mechanical, electronic, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without prior written permission of Apple Inc., with the following exceptions:  Any person is hereby authorized to store documentation on a single computer or device for personal use only and to print copies of documentation for personal use provided that the documentation contains Apple’s copyright notice.</span></p><p class="para"><span>No licenses, express or implied, are granted with respect to any of the technology described in this document.  Apple retains all intellectual property rights associated with the technology described in this document.  This document is intended to assist application developers to develop applications only for Apple-branded products.</span></p><p class="para"><span>Apple Inc.<br />1 Infinite Loop<br />Cupertino, CA 95014<br />408-996-1010</span></p><section class="section">
  <p class="para"><span>Apple, the Apple logo, Bonjour, Cocoa, Cocoa Touch, Logic, Numbers, Objective-C, OS X, Shake, and Xcode are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries.</span></p><p class="para"><span>Retina is a trademark of Apple Inc.</span></p><p class="para"><span>Times is a registered trademark of Heidelberger Druckmaschinen AG, available from Linotype Library GmbH.</span></p><p class="para"><span>IOS is a trademark or registered trademark of Cisco in the U.S. and other countries and is used under license.</span></p>
</section><p class="para"><span>Even though Apple has reviewed this document, APPLE MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WITH RESPECT TO THIS DOCUMENT, ITS QUALITY, ACCURACY, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. AS A RESULT, THIS DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED “AS IS,” AND YOU, THE READER, ARE ASSUMING THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO ITS QUALITY AND ACCURACY.</span></p><p class="para"><span>IN NO EVENT WILL APPLE BE LIABLE FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES RESULTING FROM ANY DEFECT, ERROR OR INACCURACY IN THIS DOCUMENT, even if advised of the possibility of such damages.</span></p><p class="para"><span>THE WARRANTY AND REMEDIES SET FORTH ABOVE ARE EXCLUSIVE AND IN LIEU OF ALL OTHERS, ORAL OR WRITTEN, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. No Apple dealer, agent, or employee is authorized to make any modification, extension, or addition to this warranty.</span></p><p class="para"><span>Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of implied warranties or liability for incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you.</span></p>
  		</section>     	
  </article>
</div>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
